Add new chart for ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL (#242)
scalar-labs/helm-charts: docs/configure-custom-values-scalardb-analytics-postgresql.md

# Configure a custom values file for ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL

This document explains how to create your custom values file for the ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL chart. For details on the parameters, see the [README](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/scalardb-analytics-postgresql/README.md) of the ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL chart.

> ## Required configurations

Author: Looks good! Thank you for your suggestion!

### Database configurations

> You must set `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties`. Please set `database.properties` to this parameter. For more details on the configurations of ScalarDB, see [ScalarDB Configurations](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/configurations.md).

Reviewer: Sorry, I'm a bit confused with this. Does it mean to set `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` to the content of `database.properties`?

Author: @komamitsu  
Thank you for the question!

It means that the parameter `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` should include the properties with the same syntax as the `database.properties` of ScalarDB.

For example, if you want to read two tables in two backend databases via ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL, you need to set the configuration for `Multi-storage transactions` in `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties`.

* Read two tables data via ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL.

  ```console
                                                  +-----------------------------+
                                            +---> | MySQL ("customer" schema)   |
                                            |     +-----------------------------+
  +------------------------------------+    |
  | ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL | ---+
  +------------------------------------+    |
                                            |     +-----------------------------+
                                            +---> | PostgreSQL ("order" schema) |
                                                  +-----------------------------+
  ```

* Custom values file (setting of `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties`) in the above case.

  ```yaml
  scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
    databaseProperties: |
      scalar.db.storage=multi-storage
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages=storage0,storage1
      
      # Storage 0
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage0.storage=jdbc
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage0.contact_points=jdbc:mysql://mysql-scalardb.default.svc.cluster.local:3306/
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage0.username=root
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage0.password=mysql
      
      # Storage 1
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage1.storage=jdbc
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage1.contact_points=jdbc:postgresql://postgresql-scalardb.default.svc.cluster.local:5432/postgres
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage1.username=postgres
      scalar.db.multi_storage.storages.storage1.password=postgres
      
      scalar.db.multi_storage.namespace_mapping=customer:storage0,order:storage1
      scalar.db.multi_storage.default_storage=storage1

  schemaImporter:
    namespaces:
      - customer
      - order
  ```

Reviewer: Thanks for the details. I think we are on the same page. So, I think there might be a room to make the sentence a bit clearer, but I'll leave it to @josh-wong 😅

Reviewer 2: @kota2and3kan I'm still a bit confused since I'm reading it two different ways. I've provided two suggestions below, so please help me understand which one is accurate🙇🏻‍♂️

> [!NOTE]
> 
> Also, I changed `database.properties` to `ScalarDB .properties file` because I think the file name can be whatever the user chooses (for example, `database.properties`, `scalardb.properties`, etc.). Is that OK?

```suggestion
You must set the `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` parameter by following the same syntax that you use to configure the ScalarDB .properties file. For details about configurations, see [ScalarDB Configurations](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/configurations.md).
```

Or, if the contents of `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` and the ScalarDB .properties file need to match exactly, the following might be better:

```suggestion
You must set the `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` parameter to the same configurations that you have set in the ScalarDB .properties file. For details about configurations, see [ScalarDB Configurations](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/configurations.md).
```

Author: @josh-wong  
Thank you for your suggestion!

---

> I've provided two suggestions below, so please help me understand which one is accurate🙇🏻‍♂️

We don't need to exactly match the `database.properties` of ScalarDB (basically, ScalarDB Cluster) and ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL. This is because ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL configuration (`database.properties`) requires only database information that users want to read data via ScalarDB Analytics.

For example, users run the OLTP workload via ScalarDB against 5 databases. However, if they want to run the OLAP workload via ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL against only 3 databases, it is enough that the `database.properties` for ScalarDB Analytics includes configurations for only 3 databases.

```
                                         +------+
                                   +---> | DB 1 |
                                   |     +------+
                                   |
                                   |     +------+
                                   +---> | DB 2 | <---+
                                   |     +------+     |
                                   |                  |
+-------------+    +----------+    |     +------+     |    +------------------------------------+      +-------------+
| OLTP client |--->| ScalarDB | ---+---> | DB 3 | <---+--- | ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL | <--- | OLAP client |
+-------------+    +----------+    |     +------+     |    +------------------------------------+      +-------------+
                                   |                  |
                                   |     +------+     |
                                   +---> | DB 4 | <---+
                                   |     +------+
                                   |
                                   |     +------+
                                   +---> | DB 5 |
                                         +------+
```

In this case, the `database.properties` of ScalarDB and ScalarDB Analytics is different. So, the first one looks good to me.

Also, I think it would be better to add a bit of detail to represent the condition `exact matching is not necessary`.

```suggestion
To access databases via ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL, you must set the `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` parameter by following the same syntax that you use to configure the ScalarDB .properties file. For details about configurations, see [ScalarDB Configurations](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/configurations.md).
```

What do you think?

---

> Also, I changed `database.properties` to `ScalarDB .properties file` because I think the file name can be whatever the user chooses (for example, `database.properties`, `scalardb.properties`, etc.). Is that OK?

From the technical perspective, you are right, and I think it's OK to use the term `ScalarDB .properties file`. However, I have one concern. In other ScalarDB documents, I think they state `database.properties` or `scalardb.properties`. In other words, it is not consistent with other documents.

So, there is a possibility that users are confused about `Are the ScalarDB .properties file and database.properties different?`. For example, if users first see ScalarDB documents and then see this document, it causes such confusion I think.

Of course, I think mixing  `database.properties` and `scalardb.properties` in several documents is not good... So, we should unify the terming to `ScalarDB .properties file` in the whole documents of ScalarDB.

As a first step of that, I agree with using the term `ScalarDB .properties file` in this document. But, it affects all ScalarDB documents. So, I think we should discuss terming of properties file with other product members first.

Also, it might be better to update this term in another PR (in another task/story) such as `Unify properties file names in all documents`.

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: > In this case, the database.properties of ScalarDB and ScalarDB Analytics is different. So, the first one looks good to me.
> 
> Also, I think it would be better to add a bit of detail to represent the condition exact matching is not necessary.

@kota2and3kan Thank you for confirming!🙇🏻‍♂️  Let's use the following, with the phrase for the properties file (`database.properties`) for consistency across other docs in this PR.

```suggestion
To access databases via ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL, you must set the `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.databaseProperties` parameter by following the same syntax that you use to configure the `database.properties` file. For details about configurations, see [ScalarDB Configurations](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/configurations.md).
```

> Also, it might be better to update this term in another PR (in another task/story) such as Unify properties file names in all documents.

I agree. I've only recently found out that the user can specify the name of the `.properties`, so I'd like to note that the file name may vary depending on the user's environment in the future.

As you mentioned, let's determine the exact phrase to use in another PR and across docs. Maybe we can do that after we consolidate docs into one repository to ensure consistency💪

Author: @josh-wong  
> Let's use the following, with the phrase for the properties file (`database.properties`) for consistency across other docs in this PR.

Looks good. I will apply it.
Thank you for updating your suggestion!

> As you mentioned, let's determine the exact phrase to use in another PR and across docs. Maybe we can do that after we consolidate docs into one repository to ensure consistency💪

Sound good. Let's discuss and update documents after we unify the docs into one repository!

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  databaseProperties: |
    scalar.db.contact_points=localhost
    scalar.db.username=${env:SCALAR_DB_USERNAME:-}
    scalar.db.password=${env:SCALAR_DB_PASSWORD:-}
    scalar.db.storage=cassandra
```

> ### Namespaces configurations

Reviewer 3: This might cause confusion between ScalarDB's namespace and Kubernetes's namespace.

Author: Ah, I see. I agree with that concern.
I will update the documents.
Thank you for pointing it out!

Author: I updated the document to describe the `namespace` is the `database namespace` in this context explicitly in 831fa610740cbced854e3409c22c4c8afd4a25d1.

      drop:
        - ALL
    runAsNonRoot: true
    allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
```

### Image configurations (default value is recommended)

If you want to change the image repository, you can use `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.image.repository` and `schemaImporter.image.repository` to specify the container repository information of the ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL and Schema Importer images that you want to pull.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  image:
    repository: <SCALARDB_ANALYTICS_WITH_POSTGRESQL_CONTAINER_IMAGE>

schemaImporter:
  image:
    repository: <SCHEMA_IMPORTER_CONTAINER_IMAGE>
```

### Replica configurations (optional based on your environment)

You can specify the number of ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL replicas (pods) by using `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.replicaCount`.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  replicaCount: 3
```

### PostgreSQL database name configuration (optional based on your environment)

You can specify the database name that you create in PostgreSQL. Schema Importer creates some object such a view of ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL in this database.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  postgresql:

>   databaseName: scalardb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    databaseName: scalardb
```
Same as below?

Author: Yeah, right!
Sorry, I overlooked it...
Thank you for pointing it out!

```

### PostgreSQL superuser password configuration (optional based on your environment)

You can specify the secret name that includes superuser password for PostgreSQL.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  postgresql:

>   secretName: scalardb-analytics-postgresql-superuser-password

Reviewer: I guess this corresponds to `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.postgresql.secretName`. If so, this line should be indented?
```suggestion
    secretName: scalardb-analytics-postgresql-superuser-password
```

Author: Ah, yes. You are right!
I will apply it. Thank you for pointing it out!

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  podSecurityContext:
    fsGroup: 201
    seccompProfile:
      type: RuntimeDefault
  securityContext:
    capabilities:
      drop:
        - ALL
    runAsNonRoot: true
    runAsUser: 999
    allowPrivilegeEscalation: false

schemaImporter:
  securityContext:
    capabilities:
      drop:
        - ALL
    runAsNonRoot: true
    allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
```

### Image configurations (default value is recommended)

If you want to change the image repository, you can use `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.image.repository` and `schemaImporter.image.repository` to specify the container repository information of the ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL and Schema Importer images that you want to pull.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:
  image:
    repository: <SCALARDB_ANALYTICS_WITH_POSTGRESQL_CONTAINER_IMAGE>

schemaImporter:
  image:
    repository: <SCHEMA_IMPORTER_CONTAINER_IMAGE>
```

### Replica configurations (optional based on your environment)

You can specify the number of ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL replicas (pods) by using `scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL.replicaCount`.

```yaml
scalardbAnalyticsPostgreSQL:

>   replicaCount: 3

Reviewer 4: Does this setting create the Postgres instances with replication? Or does it just make multiple instances?

Author: This setting just makes multiple instances without streaming replication or logical replication. At the moment, we cannot control the replication or HA feature of PostgreSQL by using this chart. We just deploy it as a single instance or multiple instances.

As I mentioned, we cannot control HA features, however, I think ScalarDB Analytics with PostgreSQL is basically a `read-only` product for the analytical workload. So, I don't think we need to use the replication feature at this time.

But, from the perspective of availability, I think we can make it more available by deploying 3 pods (ideally across on 3 zones in a cloud environment).

This is why I set `3` by default in this chart.
